---
title: "MS in Data Science, 2022"
collection: teaching
type: "Graduate Course"
permalink: /teaching/2022-msds
venue: "Asian Institute of Management"
date: 2022-06-01
location: "Makati City, Philippines"
---

Time Series Analysis
======
Fundamentals of Time Series Forecasting. Time Series Decomposition. Exponential Smoothing. Hierarchical and Grouped Time Series. Complex Seasonality. Bootstrapping and Bagging. Forecast Combinations. Time Series of Counts. Forecasting with ML and Deep Learning. M5 Competition. Special Topics.

Machine Learning 3
======
This is the third course in the ML series. Deep Learning. Convolutional Neural Networks. Recurrent Neural Networks. Autoencoders. Generative Models. Intro to Reinforcement Learning. Special Topics.

Machine Learning 2
======
This is the second course in the ML series. Intro to Time Series Forecasting. Naive Bayes. Model Interpretability. Neural Networks and Backpropagation.

Machine Learning 1
======
This is the first course in the ML series. k-Nearest Neighbors. Linear and Logistic Regression. Lasso and Ridge Regularization. Decision Trees. Random Forest. Gradient Boosted Trees.

Applied Computational Statistics
======
Review of Probability. Discrete and Continuous Distributions. Large Random Samples. Maximum Likelihood Estimation. Bootstrapping and Cross-Validation. Hypothesis Testing. A/B Testing. Categorical Data and Nonparametric Methods. ANOVA. Multiple Testing. Intro to Bayesian Statistics.

Mathematics for Data Science
======
Mathematical Functions. Curve Fitting. Intro to Data Sampling. Optimization. Linear Algebra. Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors. Singular Value Decomposition. Constrained Optimization.
